hello first off let me apologize for the
production on this I am in Guangzhou
China right now I did not expect to be
doing a Travis talks while I was here
and so I just don't have the normal set
up that I have hopefully the audio and
everything is okay I apologize if it's
not so today I am about to do this vlog
this Travis talks about IMT being out of
the NA LCS this was reported a day by
ESPN and it actually cooperates some
rumors that I'd heard and well recently
let's put it that way
and so I I normally don't like to talk
about the stuff because you know
whenever it's the sources you never know
the full details but given that I'd
heard about this I feel like it's safe
to discuss it and worth worth discussing
and I'm I'll admit this I'm really
really nervous about doing this video
because there is definitely a pitchfork
situation for na LCS fans right now and
normally the guy that comes out in front
of the crowd and says hey what let's
just think about this for a second well
let's just calmly examine what's going
on that person gets skewered by a
pitchfork or in my place gets called a
right shill gets all his content
downloaded on reddit and basically you
know it's it's like kind of scary
sometimes to discuss things rather than
just hop on the bandwagon of like people
saying they hate something but I'm gonna
try to do that here and I'm asking for
your help please if you have an issue
with something that I'm saying or you
disagree with it please just discuss the
concept of why you disagree with it or
or the argument or the flaws that you
see it rather than just straw man
argument you're way against me because
I'd rather discuss something rather than
hop on a patron so it's my hope that's
my request and going a little bit
further I will also say the following I
am sad that IMT is leaving the NA LCS
I consider Noah a friend and I think
that I'm T has always been a great
organization to work with on the media
front they've given me exclusive
interviews there's no incentive for me
to want the
guys out of the nal yes so that's the
perspective that I'm coming from but I I
want to and I'm not gonna spend any time
beyond that discussing whether or not
they should or should not be in the LCS
I just want to try to have a discussion
about why this might have happened
because of course as soon as this news
comes out everybody is asking why and
I've been spending a little bit of time
thinking about it ever since I started
to hear the rumors about why right
because it doesn't make sense if you
look at some of the things that I've
said elsewhere I kind of predict you
that IMT would make it in so the
question is why and what everyone is
latching onto is one line and the ESPN
report which is from a single source
close to riot that says it has something
to do with over immortals trying to make
a push for a live experience an
investment for a live experience for
overwatch fans in Los Angeles and the
interpretation that people are making
out of this is that riot does not want
to compete with a another overwatch or
started with another eSports situation
in Los Angeles and that they are nervous
about this and that this is why they are
doing it I do not think that that is the
case I suspect that that is not what's
going on here I do not take any issue
with the ESPN report and I certainly
don't want anybody to think that I'm
somehow attacking its validity all I'm
doing is stating the same thing that
ESPN editors went to great lengths to
write which is that or to make sure
everyone understood was that that
particular reason which is the only idea
that we have so far is from a single
source and that they are close to not
riot not even in riot right for people
to understand this works oftentimes
there's the scheme of telephone that
occurs with news and information where
the people that make the decisions hint
at or say something or whatever gives
somebody else just give somebody else
which eventually gets into reddit and in
the news and all that stuff right so I
just saying I do not think that we
should take that statement
as the sole reason why this is happening
and that we should consider why this may
be happening because it's important to
just actually broaden our thought
processes here so that's what this is
going to be now let's let's start with
the overwatch situation immortals is
going to have a overwatch team and
they're going to have this in Los
Angeles the only reason I can think why
riot would be upset with a with them
trying to create a live experience in LA
as if riot really really cared about
growing the live na LCS audience in Los
Angeles I can tell you that from my
understanding of the way that Riot views
the audience this is very very
ridiculous it's not like right is trying
to create a thousand person two thousand
person three thousand person arena that
they will sell out every time to make a
lot of money and this would worry about
a alternative eSports event happening
frequently and Los Angeles that would
drain their audience right does not
really make very much money if 80 on the
audience nor I say if any because like
they have a bunch of security people and
folks that they have to pay just to
maintain this audience and the tickets
are really really cheap and often do not
even sell the full thing out so there's
no business justification for them being
worried about a local competitor that's
not where the money is made it's not
from a live audience I do not think that
they are concerned about somebody else
like sniping their audience it's just
not the way they view it from every
understanding I've ever had of this
right so if they aren't concerned with
you having an overwatch live a viewing
experience in Los Angeles then you know
because if you view that as a competitor
then why would you be concerned about
this and then some people might say well
it's because overwatch they don't like
that they're an overwatch well cloud 9
it's an overwatch right and cloud 9 is
an overwatch
and they have taken the London slot
where you LCS is more vulnerable
actually I think are looking more
vulnerable as it seems to be slipping
viewership more and every has been
talking about you LCS struggling cetera
et cetera so why would you be okay with
cloud 9 having an over west lot maybe
you say it's because cloud 9 has been in
leak for so long that you can't kick
them or they've shown all the success or
something so you just have to let cloud
9 in but you don't necessarily have to
let immortals in well you just let optic
in an optic also has an overwatch spot
so I just don't buy the idea that riot
is concerned about competitors right in
fact if anything well I won't go down
this path but like dota is a stronger
competitor to League Legends then
overwatch it in my opinion but they are
both MOBAs etc so I just don't buy that
situation because there's pretty clear
obvious answers to the fact that like
you know people are running overwatch
leagues by the way Blizzard won't even
let their overwatch League franchises
share the same branding as existing like
if you have existing eSports or so like
immortals would have to change their
name from immortals for Los Angeles
anyway they'd have this completely
separate business unit that has got a
different brand and all that stuff it
just doesn't make sense to me right so I
do not think that it is about the
overwatch situation other than if you
look at the financials so what's really
interesting is about six months ago or
so maybe a little bit longer I did a
sit-down interview that a lot of people
are now promoting with Jared and Weyland
from Riot and Andy and Noah from the
team ownership side first off I will say
it is very hard for me to imagine a
situation where Riot agrees to do this
video this panel discussion with these
owners if their plan was to remove one
of the owners from the LCS so I feel
like I could speak pretty confidently to
the idea that like Riot did not know
they were going to be removing or
mortals you know that long ago so what
has happened and since then well
the application process and for those
that don't understand what the
application process is there was a
couple different phases you have to do a
lot of different things including
opening your books to riot your
financials so they can examine it and
not just write it by the way but riot
actually has a group I'm sorry I forget
their name because it's 3:00 in the
morning here in China that is from the
traditional sports side that is
consulting riot with this application
process this is actually something that
they cited in their information their
release about how this whole thing is
going so this application process
occurred and riot is examining a ton of
information about your org can basically
have to bear everything like here's how
much money we're making etc etc at least
to everyone's general understanding of
huts going because one of the things
that right really cares about here is
sustainability
and finding partners who can help make
money etc etc right so that everybody
has so that we have a league that is
generating money because if you recall
they'll see us forever a while ago
everyone was freaking out about how
there wasn't money and players working
spent Casa la tte Center
so this application process occurred
excuse me and I I think that video that
I just reference the one with Andy and
Noah and the owners is sorry Andy and
Noah and the right guys is interesting
because in it I asked a question that I
thought was a joke
but Andy and Noah answer anyway which
was how confident are each of them and
the idea that they're each other's orgs
will get it right so TSM how confident
are you that I'm seeing again and IMT
how confident that TSM will get it and
[Music]
one of the moments well the funny thing
is Andy actually answered this question
and Andy said that he thought that
immortals had done a very good job but
that what he wanted to see was more
monetization from immortals right and
that he wanted to make sure that there
was an org here that was going to be
able to bring money there's a tape
the same way that TSM was in other words
and and that he was worried about this
for immortals and sathan amaurosis I
think at the time immortals had two
sponsorships maybe one of them was
unnamed yet they eventually announced
Tommen which full disclosure is somebody
who helped me out with the hardware side
of my travel to worlds here but I do not
think that that influenced my video here
but disclosing anyway say NASA omen is a
sponsor and I think they have more say
it's bloody USA but they don't have huge
huge sponsors besides maybe the omen
omen one I don't know the details of
that but at the same time
immortals costs of running have gone up
and here is the moment where I think we
get to my theory and again this is just
me positing a theory based off of you
know why why could this possibly be
happening because it's worth with asking
it but it's it's just speculation feel
free to disagree with it feel free to
pause this something else speculation
and that theory is that riot looked at
IM t's books and saw that this is an
organization that has been completely vc
funded does not have a sports org
backing them does not have a history of
success in eSports in terms of securing
sponsorships and sales the same way that
you have something like cloud nine and
TSM and let's go with optic who is now
entering this the scene as well so that
this is an org that and it's two years
of existence has not perhaps been able
to secure a great deal of revenue and
that this is an org that perhaps is
spending a lot of money because they
have spent money in league and they've
done it pretty I think that they've paid
their players usually tough market and
they've they spent a lot of money to get
top players they they have a house in
Santa Monica or West Los Angeles unlike
somebody like CLG who's out in Arcadia
they now they have the csgo team they
just spent twenty million
in overwatch team and remember that
quote from the ESPN article which is
that they now want to make an investment
in creating a place for fans in Los
Angeles to watch overwatch and watch
their team or whatever so you open up
the books of immortals and what you see
is a lot of money going out and not a
lot of money coming in and a purely VC
funded team that is not that at some
point time is going to have to answer to
its investors what if what if again
speculatively you now start to worry
about the mortals ability to bring in
the money and revenue and to be like a
sustaining business for this league and
this and that that is one of the major
reasons you are doing this franchise
situation and that you feel you have a
responsibility to the other nine owners
that are coming to the LCS to make sure
that this this team is also going to be
as as fiscally secure as the other teams
that are coming into league now you have
a difficult decision which is what you
know how do you handle this because
you've now decided and maybe even your
advisor group has decided that the
financials for this league this team do
not look as solid as some of the
financials of the other teams and that
they might actually like if if you are
riot and you don't believe that the
overwatch situation is going to net them
a ton of money and maybe they're going
to spend a lot there or you know
anything else maybe there's other things
are spending on Miami on who knows maybe
their salaries other stuff I don't know
right we don't know the financials of
this team neither do you but neither of
us do right does and immortals does and
that's probably it at this point in time
so what riot has done by the way is
pissed off a ton of fans right like
you're seeing reddit blow up right now
etc so whatever you do you have to make
sure that it's worth it right because
why would you
we to to my knowledge riot and immortals
had a pretty good relationship right so
you don't have a grudge against these
guys for any reason that I know of no as
a great guy so it's not like these he's
an owner that's pissing you off all the
time I just I don't and I do not think
that it's the overwatch thing so I feel
like it is probably something that
occurred during the application process
probably around the financials and by
the way the overplayed quote in that
ESPN article actually makes me even
think it's more the financials right
there referencing this investment so I
think that if you're right you only do
this if you are really actually
concerned about it or you know the
people that are advising you are
concerned about it and that this is what
you you to make this decision of and you
are gonna get a ton of heat and blowback
and so you actually worth it and for
them for riot maybe that's worth it so
this is my theory this is my speculation
and this is a in my opinion a reasonable
theory and one that we should consider
as we come up with other ideas for why
this might be occurring before we just
take all the pitchforks and burn
everything down but I know pitchforks
are on sale right now and so maybe
that's a good idea
the thing here that I will say and I
should have said this at the beginning
so that the people that really want to
hit on right right now could watch this
part because you know inevitably people
will think that I'm just trying to come
up with excuses to defend right right
did their classic riot stupid stupid
maneuver where they just do not
communicate properly about something
right and that's this is the biggest
reason why we are in this problem right
now because this it's one of the reasons
we are always in this problem we're a
bunch of fans are upset and don't
understand why something is happening
it's because right to not communicate
now they did say that they will explain
which teams are in in November but of
course all this was going to leak
as soon as the teams start figuring it
out right because if you are like there
are probably in DA's and all the stuff
that stop
you know any of the team owners from
saying something publicly but of course
if you got kicked out of the LCS like
that is going to get out really quickly
and I'm sure Wright didn't want to have
to go through the hassle of talking
about the stuff during worlds but now as
always they that report has come out it
has leaked there is one line in it from
a single source that is close to riot
that is giving the justification for
this and everyone is latching on to it
and so now everyone is losing their
so it just goes back to the same old
thing that IRC was right which is just
like just communicate this stuff ahead
of time and I think for a while they
were doing a better job with that but
with this thing they've obviously
dropped the ball I don't know it'll be
interesting to see if they actually come
out and say anything beforehand but I'm
sure that like if your whole thought was
we don't want to talk about the string
world's cause it's gonna shroud it like
of course it's going to get out and now
it's shrouding it and now you don't
control the message you have no
explanation now this thing about how
they're getting kicked out because they
align themselves overwatch is gonna go
everywhere forever it's just so stupid
so this is the problem right like if if
I am going to critique anyone here it is
riot because once again you have messed
up your communication around something
you now have a bunch of people that are
very angry and will continue to be angry
and hold a grudge at you for a long time
you will have to explain what is going
on here inevitably even though I know
you don't want to people will have a
grudge against you at that point in time
and think that you are just backpedaling
or trying to come up with some excuse
trees now they've already believed that
other thing that was in the report they
come up with their own assumptions you
just keep doing this all the time and it
doesn't help anyone so that's my
criticism here again I'm sad to see I
empty out this is just a theory I'm not
saying it's justification for why they
are out I'm not saying it is that right
should have kicked them out please I'm
not trying to defend right here in fact
I'm only critiquing them at the end of
the video here and saying that they
up so hopefully everyone can take
issue with the arguments that I'm making
rather than their sorry with the the
arguments that I am trying to make
rather than you know Oh Travis sucks
blow well I don't know that's my take
it's 3:00 a.m. probably
in this video right now did it anyway
hope you enjoyed it and by the way I'm
in China because some Oh bollocks thanks
a lot you can check them out on mobile
mobile link GG / Travis really ups now